README.md, before:

# project_fourier
Raw Materials and Work in Progress for FFT Fourier Transform Spectral Analysis of Audio / VIbration on Raspberry PI
![alt text](https://github.com/rustyoldrake/project_fourier/blob/master/img/raspberry%20pis%20in%20sense%20mode.png)

Fourier Transform Spectral Analysis Changes TIME DOMAIN into Frequency Domain:
![alt text](https://github.com/rustyoldrake/project_fourier/blob/master/img/time%20to%20frequency%20domain.png)

Like the old graphics equalizers on stereo:
![alt text](https://github.com/rustyoldrake/project_fourier/blob/master/img/graphics%20equalizer%20stereo%20old.png)

Below is an overview of how to Consume an Audio or sensor file (e.g. WAV file) data in time domain, analyze, and transform into a frequency domain.  We will also build some light logic in to determine if material change worth flagging from last sample.

[![YOUTUBE VIDEO (Raw)](https://img.youtube.com/vi/owpdE4hVfy8/0.jpg)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=owpdE4hVfy8)

# Section 0 - GENERATE TEST Signal (WAV)
generate_test_signal.py (tested OK)	

![alt text](https://github.com/rustyoldrake/project_fourier/blob/master/img/%20generate_test_signal.png)

# Section 1 - ACQUIRE AND CLEAN/FILTER WAV 
- This will import WAV file, check OK, and clean up (e.g. low pass filter) if desired

## Source File for Filter Cleaner (before)
![alt text](https://github.com/rustyoldrake/project_fourier/blob/master/img/square_2000hz_3_seconds.PNG)

## After a low pass filter (starts to remove noise over about ~7KHZ) - (after)
![alt text](https://github.com/rustyoldrake/project_fourier/blob/master/img/square_2000hz_3_seconds_post_filter.PNG)

Warning - the current filter code seems to modify general amplitude (need to work on this)


# Section 2 - PROCESS FFT - GENERATE PNG PLOT
generate_FFT_plot_PNG.py  (tested OK)	

# SIN Waves are nice and smooth and simple - note only one signal in frequency domain at 2kz
![alt text](https://github.com/rustyoldrake/project_fourier/blob/master/img/sin_2000hz_3_seconds.PNG)

# SQUARE Waves are complicated - at 1st, 3rd and 5th harmonics (2000hz, 6000hz, and 10khz)
![alt text](https://github.com/rustyoldrake/project_fourier/blob/master/img/square_2000hz_3_seconds.PNG)


# Section 3 - PROCESS FFT - GENERATE BIN SCORES
generate_FFT_bin_score_text.py  (tested OK)	
![alt text](https://github.com/rustyoldrake/project_fourier/blob/master/img/bin_weight_output.png)
![alt text](https://github.com/rustyoldrake/project_fourier/blob/master/img/bin_weight_CSV_values_in_excel.png)

# Section 4 - DELTA-DIFF - COMPARE TO PRIOR IF MATERIAL DIFFERENCE - TEST IF TRIGGER
- This is LOGIC to determin if 'trigger' fires - e.g. if more than 20% change in any bin value 

## Project Fourier - Testing Triggers (Function Generator)

### https://github.com/rustyoldrake/project_fourier/blob/master/project_fourier_event_detection_V1.py

YOUTUBE VIDEO:Part 2 - crude test to validate the FFT in code is working - and more importantly -that the TRIGGER mechanism for detecting changes to dominant frequencies (and signal levels) is firing
[![YOUTUBE VIDEO (Raw)](https://img.youtube.com/vi/96orzRvhGrM/0.jpg)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=96orzRvhGrM)
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=96orzRvhGrM

## Project Fourier - Testing Motor Acoustics
YOUTUBE VIDEO: we are now listening to the array of motors and validating that the software which is performing at Fourier transform analysis and spectral analysis can pick up and trigger on material changes to the states of the motors in this case as we vary the voltage the dominant frequencies of the motors change and also as we interfere with the motors we can see the same effect triggering alert or action 
[![YOUTUBE VIDEO (Raw)](https://img.youtube.com/vi/39hvj8N8qc4/0.jpg)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=39hvj8N8qc4)
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=39hvj8N8qc4


# Section 5 - COMPOSE & TRANSMIT PAYLOAD
- (TBD)
- JSON 
- Send information to Grafana / Cloud for display and alerting 


  
  


# Appendix and Other Useful Links
SciPy and NumPy MANY tools for FFT and DFT:
SCIPY AND NUMPY Manuals (Beefy) -
https://docs.scipy.org/doc/scipy-0.13.0/scipy-ref.pdf
https://sites.engineering.ucsb.edu/~shell/che210d/numpy.pdf
https://docs.scipy.org/doc/numpy-1.11.0/numpy-user-1.11.0.pdf

## A Graduate Seminar Course at UC Berkeley (AY 250)
 python-seminar/DataFiles_and_Notebooks/04_Interacting_with_the_World/4_audio.ipynb 
https://github.com/profjsb/python-seminar/blob/master/DataFiles_and_Notebooks/04_Interacting_with_the_World/4_audio.ipynb

## Using Keras and TensorFlow for anomaly detection
Create a deep learning neural network with Keras and TensorFlow
https://developer.ibm.com/tutorials/iot-deep-learning-anomaly-detection-5/

## Install Packages
sudo apt-get install python3-numpy
sudo apt-get install python3-matplotlib
sudo apt-get install python3-scipy
pip3 install pydub
pip3 install pyplot

## USB Mic on PI
https://www.raspberrypi.org/forums/viewtopic.php?t=207058
http://wiki.sunfounder.cc/index.php?title=To_use_USB_mini_microphone_on_Raspbian
$ lsusb 
$ arecord -l

## RASPBERRY PI Localization for Test 
speaker-test -t sine -f 440 -c 2 -s 1

arecord -D plughw:1,0 -d 3 test.wav && aplay test.wav

Commit message:

Mixing 100Hz and 105Hz to heterodyne to  5Hz ELF Beat
added youtube  video

README.md, after:

# project_fourier
Raw Materials and Work in Progress for FFT Fourier Transform Spectral Analysis of Audio / VIbration on Raspberry PI
![alt text](https://github.com/rustyoldrake/project_fourier/blob/master/img/raspberry%20pis%20in%20sense%20mode.png)

Fourier Transform Spectral Analysis Changes TIME DOMAIN into Frequency Domain:
![alt text](https://github.com/rustyoldrake/project_fourier/blob/master/img/time%20to%20frequency%20domain.png)

Like the old graphics equalizers on stereo:
![alt text](https://github.com/rustyoldrake/project_fourier/blob/master/img/graphics%20equalizer%20stereo%20old.png)

Below is an overview of how to Consume an Audio or sensor file (e.g. WAV file) data in time domain, analyze, and transform into a frequency domain.  We will also build some light logic in to determine if material change worth flagging from last sample.

[![YOUTUBE VIDEO (Raw)](https://img.youtube.com/vi/owpdE4hVfy8/0.jpg)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=owpdE4hVfy8)

# Section 0 - GENERATE TEST Signal (WAV)
generate_test_signal.py (tested OK)	

![alt text](https://github.com/rustyoldrake/project_fourier/blob/master/img/%20generate_test_signal.png)

# Section 1 - ACQUIRE AND CLEAN/FILTER WAV 
- This will import WAV file, check OK, and clean up (e.g. low pass filter) if desired

## Source File for Filter Cleaner (before)
![alt text](https://github.com/rustyoldrake/project_fourier/blob/master/img/square_2000hz_3_seconds.PNG)

## After a low pass filter (starts to remove noise over about ~7KHZ) - (after)
![alt text](https://github.com/rustyoldrake/project_fourier/blob/master/img/square_2000hz_3_seconds_post_filter.PNG)

Warning - the current filter code seems to modify general amplitude (need to work on this)


# Section 2 - PROCESS FFT - GENERATE PNG PLOT
generate_FFT_plot_PNG.py  (tested OK)	

# SIN Waves are nice and smooth and simple - note only one signal in frequency domain at 2kz
![alt text](https://github.com/rustyoldrake/project_fourier/blob/master/img/sin_2000hz_3_seconds.PNG)

# SQUARE Waves are complicated - at 1st, 3rd and 5th harmonics (2000hz, 6000hz, and 10khz)
![alt text](https://github.com/rustyoldrake/project_fourier/blob/master/img/square_2000hz_3_seconds.PNG)


# Section 3 - PROCESS FFT - GENERATE BIN SCORES
generate_FFT_bin_score_text.py  (tested OK)	
![alt text](https://github.com/rustyoldrake/project_fourier/blob/master/img/bin_weight_output.png)
![alt text](https://github.com/rustyoldrake/project_fourier/blob/master/img/bin_weight_CSV_values_in_excel.png)

# Section 4 - DELTA-DIFF - COMPARE TO PRIOR IF MATERIAL DIFFERENCE - TEST IF TRIGGER
- This is LOGIC to determin if 'trigger' fires - e.g. if more than 20% change in any bin value 

## Project Fourier - Testing Triggers (Function Generator)

### https://github.com/rustyoldrake/project_fourier/blob/master/project_fourier_event_detection_V1.py

YOUTUBE VIDEO:Part 2 - crude test to validate the FFT in code is working - and more importantly -that the TRIGGER mechanism for detecting changes to dominant frequencies (and signal levels) is firing
[![YOUTUBE VIDEO (Raw)](https://img.youtube.com/vi/96orzRvhGrM/0.jpg)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=96orzRvhGrM)
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=96orzRvhGrM

## Project Fourier - Testing Motor Acoustics
YOUTUBE VIDEO: we are now listening to the array of motors and validating that the software which is performing at Fourier transform analysis and spectral analysis can pick up and trigger on material changes to the states of the motors in this case as we vary the voltage the dominant frequencies of the motors change and also as we interfere with the motors we can see the same effect triggering alert or action 
[![YOUTUBE VIDEO (Raw)](https://img.youtube.com/vi/39hvj8N8qc4/0.jpg)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=39hvj8N8qc4)
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=39hvj8N8qc4

##  UPDATE 2021 - PROJECT ELF
Mixing 100Hz and 105Hz to heterodyne to  5Hz ELF Beat
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2RspE8UE6gg


# Section 5 - COMPOSE & TRANSMIT PAYLOAD
- (TBD)
- JSON 
- Send information to Grafana / Cloud for display and alerting 


  
  


# Appendix and Other Useful Links
SciPy and NumPy MANY tools for FFT and DFT:
SCIPY AND NUMPY Manuals (Beefy) -
https://docs.scipy.org/doc/scipy-0.13.0/scipy-ref.pdf
https://sites.engineering.ucsb.edu/~shell/che210d/numpy.pdf
https://docs.scipy.org/doc/numpy-1.11.0/numpy-user-1.11.0.pdf

## A Graduate Seminar Course at UC Berkeley (AY 250)
 python-seminar/DataFiles_and_Notebooks/04_Interacting_with_the_World/4_audio.ipynb 
https://github.com/profjsb/python-seminar/blob/master/DataFiles_and_Notebooks/04_Interacting_with_the_World/4_audio.ipynb

## Using Keras and TensorFlow for anomaly detection
Create a deep learning neural network with Keras and TensorFlow
https://developer.ibm.com/tutorials/iot-deep-learning-anomaly-detection-5/

## Install Packages
sudo apt-get install python3-numpy
sudo apt-get install python3-matplotlib
sudo apt-get install python3-scipy
pip3 install pydub
pip3 install pyplot

## USB Mic on PI
https://www.raspberrypi.org/forums/viewtopic.php?t=207058
http://wiki.sunfounder.cc/index.php?title=To_use_USB_mini_microphone_on_Raspbian
$ lsusb 
$ arecord -l

## RASPBERRY PI Localization for Test 
speaker-test -t sine -f 440 -c 2 -s 1

arecord -D plughw:1,0 -d 3 test.wav && aplay test.wav
